Pie Crust sans shortening
via http://www.anyrecipe.net/dessert/recipes/piecrust_without_shortening.html

1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (130 g) all purpose flour
1 1/2 tablespoons butter or vegetable oil
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
3 tablespoons cold water

if making a top crust as well:
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups (260 g) all purpose flour
3 tablespoons butter or vegetable oil
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 tablespoons cold water


In a bowl mix flour and salt.  Add butter, and cut into small pieces.

Sprinkle in vegetable oil.  With a pastry blender, cut the butter and oil into the flour mixture until it has the grain of cornmeal.
  
The dough becomes darker when the vegetable oil is mixed evenly.
Sprinkle cold water evenly.

Place the dough on a piece of plastic wrap. With a fork or knife, you can break up the lumps of dough that formed from the water and spread it over the rest of the dough, allowing the moisture to spread evenly. Do not mix the dough, however.

Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and form it into a ball. Refrigerate the dough for 30 minutes.

Cut a sheet of plastic wrap that is 2 inches bigger than the pie pan. Lightly sprinkle flour over the plastic wrap.
Place the dough in the center of the sheet. Cover with another sheet of plastic warp that has been lightly sprinkled with flour. The flour will prevent the dough from sticking to the plastic wrap.

Using a rolling pin, roll the dough into a circle that is 1 inch wider than the pie pan and about an 1/8 inch thick.
  
Remove the top piece of plastic wrap. Place the pie pan upside down on the flattened dough. Put one hand under the plastic wrap and hold it against the center of the pie. Put another hand on the bottom of the pie pan and quickly flip it over.
    
Center the dough on the pie pan. Remove the plastic wrap slowly.

Press the dough lightly to make sure there is no air bubble underneath. Shape the edge of the pie crust. If the crust is to be baked without a filling, cut a few slits in the bottom of the dough. This will stop large bubbles from forming.

Cover and refrigerate the dough for at least 1 hour before baking. You can refrigerate the dough up to 12 hours before baking if you are planning to bake the crust later. Chilling the dough will keep it from shrinking when it is baking. Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C) and bake for 15-18 minutes or until the edge and the bottom of the crust are nicely brown.
