Nut milk
via https://www.thekitchn.com/homemade-cashew-milk-243347

Nut Milk

Makes 2 cups

INGREDIENTS:
1 cup raw, unsalted cashews, or any raw nuts without skins
2 cups water, plus more for soaking
Sweeteners, such as honey, sugar, agave syrup, or maple syrup (optional)

INSTRUCTIONS:
Soak the nuts: Place the nuts in a medium bowl. Cover with about 1 inch of water. Cover the bowl with a cloth and let sit overnight at room temperature or for up to 2 days in the refrigerator. The nuts will plump as they absorb water and should feel a little squishy if you pinch them. The longer the nuts soak, the creamier the milk will be.

Drain and rinse the nuts: Drain the nuts through a fine-mesh strainer or colander, then rinse them thoroughly under cool running water.

Combine the cashews and water in a blender: Place the nuts in a blender (or a food processor) and add the 2 cups of water.

Blend on high speed: Pulse the blender a few times to break up the nuts, then blend continuously on high speed for 3 minutes. The nuts should be broken down into a very fine meal, and the water should be white and opaque. (If using a food processor, process for 4 minutes total, pausing to scrape down the sides halfway through.)

Strain out the nut meal: Line the fine-mesh strainer or colander with either an opened nut bag or 2 layers of cheesecloth and set over a measuring cup (or bowl if you don't have one big enough). Pour the nut mixture through the strainer. Gather the nut bag or cheesecloth around the nut meal and twist close. Squeeze and press with clean hands to extract as much nut milk as possible. You should get about 2 cups.

Sweeten to taste: Taste the nut milk, and if a sweeter drink is desired, add sweetener to taste.

Refrigerate the nut milk: Store the nut milk in sealed containers in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Save the nut meal for another use.

RECIPE NOTES
Storage: Leftover nut milk can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. If it separates, just shake to recombine.

