sweet peppers stuffed with cheese and scallions in sauce afgan (peshavari bhara mirch)
via Randall Hansen

the peppers
-----------

i usually make this pretty straight.  when y'all were over i didn't use as many
green chilies as she suggests, and i cooked the potatoes differently (cubed and
fried in oil, instead of boiled first); either way is fine.

4 bell peppers, medium to large size
chenna made from 1/2 gallon milk
1/2 c scallions, chopped
4 hot green chilies, minced
1/3 c cilantro, chopped
2 T flour, garbanzo bean if possible
4-6 T light vegetable oil (i use olive oil)
1/2 t cumin seed
2 T grated ginger
4 potatoes, medium size, boiled and coarsely mashed
2 large lemons, juiced and strained
1/4 t salt

1. start the chenna (recipe below).

2. start the sauce afgan (recipe below).

3. halve the peppers and gut them (laugh maniacally while doing so).

4. mix chenna, scallions, chilies, cilantro, flour and set aside.

5. heat large pan or skillet over medium/high heat, add 3 T oil.  add cumin
   seeds, stir 'til they're darker brown.  add ginger, stir well for 15-30
   seconds.  add potatoes, stir well, cook 'til they brown.  stir in salt and
   juice from 1 lemon and set aside.
6. stuff peppers, first with cheese and then with potatoes.

7. heat large skillet over medium/high heat (the same skillet from step 5, if
   possible), add 3T oil and put in as many pepper halves, as will fit potato
   side down.  fry until brown.  turn over and lower heat, cook until they're
   cooked enough for your taste, pry 10-15 minutes.

chenna
------

danger #1 here is boiling the milk over onto the stove.  that's a fucking
nightmare.  bring it to a boil slowly, stirring every minute or two.

1. set cheese cloth, folded over several times, in a strainer in the sink.

2. have juice from 1 lemon handy.

3. boil 1/2 gallon milk.  watch it like a fucking hawk.

4. the second it boils, turn down the heat and add the lemon juice.

5. stir gently with a blunt instrument (i.e., not a wire whisk) while
   maintaining some heat under it.  you want it as hot as possible while not
   boiling over.  if you're at all worried about this, just turn the heat right
   off as soon as it starts to boil.

6. stir until you've got most of the foam stirred in, and the curds are separated.

7. strain slowly into the cheese cloth.  then run the stuff under cold water
   until there's no smell of lemon or curds, just a clean cheese smell.

8. wrap up the ends of the cheese cloth so you have a ball of cheese, squeeze
   gently to remove as much water as you can.  if you squeeze too much (or your
   cheese cloth is too loosely-woven, or not folded over enough) cheese will
   come out.  this is bad and should be avoided.

9. let it hang somewhere for an hour or so.

sauce afgan
-----------

i use the same ingredients, but much more of them, and pry in different
proportions (i don't measure it anymore).  if anything, i use less
oil.  it's probably my favorite sauce.

6 T oil
1/2 t cumin seed
1/2 c onion, minced
3 hot green chilies
1 clove garlic, minced (i often use a whole bulb)
2 tomatoes, medium, chopped
1/2 t fennel, ground
1/3 c plain yogurt (this is what makes it awesome)
1/3 t salt

1. heat a medium to large pan over high heat until very hot.  add the oil and
   the cumin seed.  when it turns darker, add the onion and fry, stirring
   often, until brownish.  throw in everything else and turn down the heat a
   little.

2. you want to took this for about 30 minutes.  it's hard to describe, but
   after a while the oil will separate a little and the sauce will start to
   look fried.

3. you may need to add some water to prevent the sauce thickening too much and
   burning.  i usually get around that by using much more of everything, thus
   generating more liquid form the vegetables.  i also often cover the sauce
   after step 1 to keep the liquid in.

corn bread
----------

2 c corn
1/2 t salt
1 1/4 c flour (more or less)
1 T vegetable oil

1. grind corn and salt together.  don't puree it to paste, but get it pretty
   fine.

2. transfer to a bowl and add the flour, 1/4 cup at a time.  blend until it's a
   sticky-soft dough.  too sticky and you won't be able to roll it out.  too
   dry and it'll suck.

3. clean and dry your hands very well.  pour some oil on your hands.  divide
   the dough into 12 equal portions.  shape each into a ball and roll into
   about a 6-inch circle, on a floured surface.  put them under a towel when
   you're done.

4. heat a cast-iron (or other, but certainly not non-stick) until it's the
   right temperature.  the "right temperature" is something you'll figure out
   after the first half dozen breads, if you're lucky.

5. drop one bread on the skillet.  shake the flour off first, if you can, but
   don't mutilate it.  cook kinda like a tortilla, until it's flecked with
   brown but not burned; flip and do it again.  if you've done very well with
   the dough, the bread will start to bubble a little.  this whole process
   should take 2-3 minutes per bread.

6. remove from the pan and put on a plate; brush with some salted butter.  put
   in a warm dish in a warm oven.

7. do /not/ get any oil on the pan.  it should remain perfectly dry between
   breads.  avoid getting too much flour on it, too, since it will burn and
   stick to the breads.

