Lemon Crinkle Cookies
via http://freshaprilflours.com/2015/12/16/lemon-crinkle-cookies/

3 cups all purpose flour
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon baking powder
¼ teaspoon baking soda
1 cup unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
2 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 large egg, room temperature*
3 Tablespoons fresh lemon juice
zest of two lemons
1 cup powdered sugar


In a medium size bowl, toss together the flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. Set aside.

In a large bowl with a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy (approximately 2-3 minutes). Beat in vanilla, egg, lemon juice, and lemon zest. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula as necessary.

Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add flour mixture. Mix until just combined. Cover bowl and chill in the refrigerator at least 1 hour and up to 3 days. If chilling longer than 1 hour, allow to sit at room temperature about 15 minutes before rolling into balls.

When you are ready to bake the cookies, preheat the oven to 350ºF. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Set aside.

Pour the powdered sugar onto a large plate. Using a large cookie scoop, scoop the dough out of the bowl and roll into a ball with your hands. Dough ball does not need to be perfect. Roll the ball of dough generously in the powdered sugar. Place no more than 8 balls of dough on a baking sheet at one time (4 rows of 2). Chill dough you are not using.

Bake cookies for 13-14 minutes or until cookies look mostly matte (not wet or shiny). Remove from oven and cool on the baking sheet for 3 minutes before transferring to cooling rack to cool completely. 

Store cookies in an airtight container at room temperature up to 10 days. 

Baked cookies freeze well, up to 2 months. Rolled cookie dough can be frozen up to 3 months.   Roll in powdered sugar before baking and bake frozen. Add another 1-2 minutes to baking time.
