rose syrup
via various sources


First step, make rose water:
* there are two methods to making rosewater, there’s a more difficult steaming or double-boil method, or the much easier simmering method (which is what I do and which is written here).  Recipe resource: http://blog.freepeople.com/2013/03/diy-rose-water/

Ingredients:
fresh roses
cold water

pick fresh and fragrant roses during the cool morning hours, don’t use roses which have been sprayed with insecticides or purchased from a florist. reds and pinks make lovely colored rose water, but the colors are up to you. 

pluck petals from the roses and rinse in cold water, then drain

place rose petals in a large pot, and fill with just enough cold water to cover the petals.  Too much water will dilute the rose water.

Cover with lid and let simmer until the petals lose their color (10-15 minutes)

Drain mixture through a fine mesh strainer, and discard the petals.  The liquid is your rosewater!  Store in the refrigerator for up to 3 months - or freeze.

Second step, make a simple syrup with your rosewater:
Recipe resource: http://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/simple-syrup

Ingredients:
rosewater
sugar

In a medium saucepan combine sugar and water (1:1 ratio) and bring to a boil.

Simmer until the sugar is dissolved (5 minutes), remove from heat and let cool before using.

Store in the refrigerator, probably won’t last more than 3 months, but I haven’t yet tested this out.

Rose syrup tastes great in cocktails, especially with lemon juice, gin, and strawberries.  Also goes well in a cup of tea or lemonade, or splash some on your fruit salads.  I have an idea to try making rose and lemon ice cream this summer.  I may also try making baklava, rose syrup lassi and turkish delight candies out of my rose syrup. Other considerations: ice creams, cookies, cake, jam/jelly, flan, marshmallows, custard/rice pudding, icing, meringue/macarons.  Rose syrup seems to be popularly used in desserts in France, India, Greece and Turkey and other Mediterranean countries so there’s a lot out there to experiment with and explore.

